Aligning Economic Impact with Environmental Benefits: A Green Strategy Model
Qing Gu
Department of Computer Science
VU University Amsterdam
The Netherlands
q.gu@vu.nl

Patricia Lago
Department of Computer Science
VU University Amsterdam
The Netherlands
p.lago@vu.nl

Abstract—To achieve lower energy consumption many green
strategies (e.g. virtualize applications and consolidate them
on shared server machines, or optimize the usage of the
private cloud by opening up to external consumers) have
been discussed. In practice, however, the major incentive for a
company to go green is reducing costs. While green strategies
often focus on technical and environmental issues, they hardly
address the economic impact that they may bring. If green
strategies do not lead to an explicit (and significant) reduction
of costs (hence increase in revenues) they are nice but not
part of the business strategy of the company. In this paper we
propose a green strategy model that provides decision makers
with the information needed to decide on whether to take
green strategies and eventually how to align them with their
business strategies. This model provides a means to codify
green strategies in such a way that the link between green
strategies, their economic impact and green goals becomes
explicit. We applied the model in a case study to codify 132
green actions collected from Dutch data centers. This exercise
further confirmed the advantage of using the proposed model
and helped us identifying future improvements.
Keywords-Green IT; green strategy; sustainability

I. I NTRODUCTION
Over the last decades, the use of Information Technology
(IT) has been exploded to nearly everywhere, making our
lives and work much more efficient and convenient. Besides
the benefits that IT brings us, it also contributes significantly
to environmental problems [1]–[4], not only because of the
electricity consumed by computers, data centers, networks,
and other IT utilities, but also due to the short life cycle
of IT hardware. While “going green” has become a global
topic in recent years, making IT greener has been attracting
tremendous attention from both academia and industry aiming at understanding and reducing the energy consumption
of computing systems [5], [6].
Many green actions and strategies have been discussed in
the literature and practiced in the industry to achieve the
green goal of lower energy consumption. During the life
cycle stages of IT, green strategies can be applied in green
design (e.g. the move from single-core to dual- and quadcore
processors [7]), green manufacturing (e.g. making green
PCs using nontoxic materials that consume less electrical
power and are easily reassembled [7], produce upgradable
equipment [8]), green use (e.g. reducing energy consumption

Simone Potenza
Department of Computer Science
VU University Amsterdam
The Netherlands
simone.potenza@gmail.com

by PCs or enabling power management features [7], print
more efficiently by e.g. printing double-sided [9]), and green
disposal (e.g. reuse, refurbish, and recycle [7], redeploying
IT equipment to other areas of the company, resort to
donation as a means of disposal [10]).
From these examples of green strategies, we can see
that applying a green strategy to achieve environmental
goals is obviously not costless. It requires additional investments, business process changes, and extra efforts from
both companies and individuals. Although many of the green
strategies would lead to lower energy bills for a company
(and thus reduce costs), the tradeoff between the economic
gain and investment is often unclear to the decision makers
of a company. As a result, green goals are often regarded
as a nice optional bonus rather than a must-have target, and
the priority of green goals decreases.
To ensure economic benefits while making a sustainable
business, there must be an alignment between green goals
and organizational/business goals. Only when such an alignment is in place, the decision makers of a company can be
motivated to take green actions [11]. In the business domain,
the strategy modeling language (SML) [12] has been used
to align business model with business goal, business plan,
and optimization objectives to ensure business strategies can
be optimally realized. To our knowledge, currently there
is no systematic approach to describe solutions, actions,
or strategies that can produce environmental benefits and
enforce the alignment between green strategies and business
goals.
To this end, in this paper we propose a green strategy
model to codify green actions (or solutions, practices) aiming at achieving environmental goals, and to explicitly link
green actions to its economic impact and green goals. This
link aids the tradeoff analysis between financial investments
and economic benefits. Such tradeoff analysis provides evidence for decision makers to apply green strategies and
accommodate business and operational goals to green goals.
Moreover, by modeling green strategies in a systematic way,
green strategies from multiple companies can be compared,
integrated, or generalized to a set of green approaches that
can be shared and reused among companies.

The remainder of the paper is structured as follows.
Section II explains the design of the green strategy model.
Section III introduces a case study that we carried out
to codify the green actions of several Dutch data centers
using the proposed green strategy model and discusses our
experience in using the model and the lessons learned.
Section IV concludes the paper.
II. T HE D ESIGN OF THE G REEN S TRATEGY M ODEL
The design of our green strategy model was inspired
by the definitions collected by the Global Development
Research Center (GDSC1 ), which is an independent nonprofit think tank carrying initiatives in education, research
and practice. Their goal is to contribute to broad-based
global development by facilitating the creation and use of
knowledge. The GDSC glossary of environmental terms
elicited definitions from international organizations (like ISO
and the Environmental Protection Agency of the USA). We
found two definitions especially relevant to our purposes:
Definition 1. A green strategy (aka environmental strategy) is a plan of action intended to accomplish a specific
environmental goal.
Definition 2. A green goal (aka environmental goal) is an
objective that an organization sets itself to achieve, and
which is quantified where practical.
The first definition breaks down a strategy into two
components: a plan of actions and a specific environmental
goal the actions should help achieving. Moreover, the second
definition implies that whenever applicable we should be
able to quantify the extent to which an environmental goal
is achieved. This calls, in our opinion, for the association of
metrics (either qualitative or quantitative) that measure the
contribution of each action to the achievement of the goal.

Figure 1.

Example 1: A Green Strategy for Electronic Bookstores

Putting the above elements together, we designed the first
version of a green strategy as graphically illustrated by the
example in Figure 1. The example has been extracted from
the electronic bookstore domain. It represents a strategy aiming at reducing the carbon footprint (CF) of printing books.
1 www.gdrc.org

The strategy includes two actions: the first action Print on
demand refers to printing books only after customers order
them. This action makes the business more sustainable by
reducing the costs of storing books in large quantities before
customers order them. While this effect is not “green per
se”, i.e. it does have an indirect positive impact on the
total CF by reducing paper consumption to the minimum
(i.e. exactly the amount of books that are actually ordered
by customers). The second action Print near to delivery
address is to physically print the ordered books in a store as
near as possible to the address of the customer. This allows
to shorten the delivery distance, hence reducing the CF of
transportation.
We developed a number of examples (from both theory
and practice) to challenge our first model of green strategy.
In doing that, we have identified the following weaknesses.
1) Each action can have one or more effects that help
achieving the environmental goal. In order to select the
best actions to put in place in a certain organization
we must make each effect explicit. In doing that we
can understand further what we need to measure to
monitor the progress toward achieving the green goal.
For instance, in the example of Figure 1 the action
effects (added on the associated arrows) identify that
by monitoring paper consumption and transportation
distances, respectively, we can draw the trend toward
reducing the total CF.
2) While action effects are typically technical or environmental in nature, they do not explain the economic
impact that they have. We had various discussions with
companies actively involved in green ICT and/or in
decreasing their CF, and all explained that the major
incentive for them to go green is to reduce costs.
Hence, if green strategies do not lead to an explicit
(and significant) reduction of costs (hence increase in
revenues) they are (again) nice but not part of the
business strategy of the organization. In periods of
economic crisis, they are the first to be forgotten, or
neglected.
To challenge our first model in aligning green strategies
and business strategies, we associated each action effect with
its (potential) economic impact. This resulted in the revised
green strategy model illustrated in Figure 2. A green goal is
realized by a number of green actions, and a green action
can achieve a number of green goals. Each green action
has a description to explain what the green action means. A
green action leads to at least one action effect, which causes
at least one economic impact. A green action belongs to
one sub-category, which is a sub-set of a category. While
the green goal represents ecologic impact of the strategy as
a whole, the action effects detail the ecologic impact of each
action individually.

Figure 2.

The Green Strategy Model

III. A C ASE S TUDY - C ODIFY THE G REEN ACTIONS OF
D UTCH DATA C ENTERS U SING THE P ROPOSED G REEN
S TRATEGY M ODEL
After the design of the green strategy model, we planned
to challenge the model to find out its suitability in making
explicit and aligning the economic impact of green actions
and the corresponding environmental benefits. One way to
challenge the model is to codify green strategies that have
been used or proposed in industry. By doing so, we would
be able to assess the added value and limitations when using
our model to codify the green strategies.
To challenge the model we selected an industrial case
where 132 green actions were documented by the MJA
(Meerjarenafspraaken meaning long-term agreements) [13].
The MJA is a voluntary agreement between the Dutch
government and the largest energy consumers in the Netherlands, these being both large industries (e.g. banks and
telecom providers) and higher education institutes (e.g.
universities). This agreement is brought to life in order
to improve the energy efficiency of products, services and
processes resulting in a reduction of fossil fuel usage. It
relates to activities within businesses and sustainable energy.
For more than 15 years the MJA has been in place and has
proven to be a good measure in realizing improvements in
energy efficiency.
In the case study, we have been provided with a spreadsheet of the 132 green actions gathered by multiple data
centers as part of MJA agreements decided by the Funding
Agency of the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation2 . The spreadsheet of green actions
has been created by domain experts, who are responsible
for designing and managing data centers. Each action is described in terms of 30 different fields, including e.g. branch,
type, short descriptions, long descriptions. These actions
are meant to lower and optimize the energy consumption
2 www.agentschap.nl

needed to run a data center in terms of deployed applications,
deployed hardware, cooling, lighting, redundancy on energy
supply, space organization, design of the datacenter, network
capacity and so on.
One of the objectives of creating such a spreadsheet was
to collect green actions of each data center, and then share
and communicate with other data centers. Despite that a
spreadsheet with pre-defined fields is used to document
green actions, different experts describe the green actions in
different manners, in terms of the level of detail and abstraction, as well as the assumptions made on the background
knowledge of readers. As a result, the decision makers of
data centers could neither completely understand the green
actions nor estimate the investment needed and the economic
benefits that could be brought by each green action. As a
result, the usefulness of such a shared spreadsheet is lost.
In the following, we introduce the steps we took to codify
the green actions provided to us, present an example of a
codified green action, and discuss the lessons we learned
from the case study.
A. Case Study Execution
As input to our case study we received a spreadsheet
containing 132 actions described by 30 fields. This spreadsheet was written in Dutch, and contained actions and best
practices originated by organizations participating in the
MJA agreement, and meant to optimize energy consumption
and management of data centers.
To codify the green actions according to our proposed
model we have taken the following four steps:
1) Translate the document from Dutch to English.
Translating in English was a necessary step to be able
to reflect and share the findings of this work. We
consider English language universally understood in the
community and industry, and therefore more suitable to
share opinion and information with people all around
the world. The translation has been first performed by

Google Translate, and then refined by a native Dutch
speaker in order to spot and remove grammar errors
and ambiguities.
2) Identify the fields that are most relevant for the
model.
In the initial MJA spreadsheet provided to us each green
action is described by 30 fields. However, not all fields
are directly relevant to make green actions reusable.
After studying the spreadsheet, we excluded the fields
that are considered irrelevant. For instance, some of the
fields are filled in with company specific codes and no
additional documentation is provided for understanding
the codes; some of the fields are left empty; and some
of the fields are meant for administrative purposes (e.g.
field old measure code has been used to track back to
historically used measurement).
As a result, we found only 7 out of 30 fields useful for
the codification. Among these 7 fields, 3 (Sub-category,
short description, long description) have been mainly
used to the mapping, while the other 4 (EIA-code,
VAMIL, Branch, and type) helped us to understand the
context and the meaning of a green action.
3) Map the identified fields to the elements of the
proposed model.
Table I
M AP THE MJA S PREADSHEET TO THE G REEN S TRATEGY M ODEL
Green strategy model
element
Green Goal
Green Action Name
Green Action
Description
Action Effect
Economic impact
SubCategory
Category

MJA spreadsheet field
Sub-category
Short description
Long description
Long description,
EIA-code, VAMIL
Long description
Branch and Type
“green IT” or “greening
of IT” based on our
own interpretation

When studying the MJA spreadsheet, we noticed that
there is a common pattern between the spreadsheet and
the green strategy model. Such pattern is presented in
Table I, which we used to map the fields from the MJA
spreadsheet to the elements of the green strategy model.
The sub-category field of the MJA spreadsheet shows
what the general achievements of green actions are and
is consequently mapped to the green goal in the model.
The short and long description fields of the MJA
spreadsheet are the most descriptive ones. They are
meant to describe in detail the green actions, from
which we may derive green action name and green
action description.
In addition, the long description often includes information about environmental effects and sometimes

also about economic impacts. By interpreting the information and making assumptions, we were able to
elicit action effects and economic impacts (even if not
explicitly stated).
The fields VAMIL3 and EIA-code4 show the opportunities for tax reductions by applying a green action.
When the values of these fields are present, we derived
the action effect as “eligible for tax reduction” and
economic impact as “savings due to tax reduction”.
The fields branch and type express categories that are
commonly used by data centers (e.g. cooling, management, design), which is naturally mapped to the subcategory element of our model.
The element category has been filled by means of our
own interpretation, so that we can use the distinction
between greening of IT (i.e. the optimal use of IT to
minimize environmental impact) and greening by IT
(i.e. minimizing the environmental impact by using IT
resources), two main roles that IT plays in achieving
environmental goals [2], [14], [15].
4) Codify the green actions.
The previous three steps are meant to prepare the green
actions provided as input to the case study. In this fourth
step we carried out the actual codification of the 132
green actions using our proposed model. To do so, we
first studied the identified 7 fields of each green action;
then elicited information relevant to each element of
the green strategy model based on Table I; and finally
filled in each element with the elicited information, our
assumptions, and information that we concluded based
on our interpretation and reasoning.
B. An Example of a Codified Green Action
In this section we present an example of the codification
of green actions (the last step of the approach). A green
action taken from the MJA spreadsheet is shown in Table II.
As explained in our approach, we used a common pattern
(see Table I) to codify the green actions. The green action
name and the green action description are taken from the
short and long descriptions, respectively. The contents of
these two fields are in our opinion clear enough.
In this example, action effect and economic impact were
the most difficult ones to codify because there is almost no
explicit description of the effects that may occur with this
green action, and economic impact is fully missing.
3 VAMIL is a scheme, promoted by the Funding Agency of the Dutch
Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. It grants tax
reductions to companies for their investment in creating environmental
optimizations.
4 EIA (Energy Investment Allowance) is a program promoted by the
Funding Agency of the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture
and Innovation. It is meant for companies that invest in sustainable energy
or in assets that save a certain amount of energy. This scheme offers
entrepreneurs a direct financial advantage, because they can deduct an extra
amount of 41,5% of the investment costs of these corporate assets from their
profits.

Nevertheless, we tried to understand the meaning of the
green action and make some assumptions. The first sentence
from the long description says “This UPS system does not
need batteries attached.” From this sentence we deduced two
action effects and their corresponding economic impact. One
effect is that there is no need to buy batteries, hence reducing
operational costs for keeping the system running. Another
effect is that no battery disposal and recycle is needed and
hence saving costs.

Table II
A N E XAMPLE OF A G REEN ACTION TAKEN F ROM THE MJA
S PREADSHEET
MJA
field

spreadsheet

Sub-Category
Short Description
Long Description
EIA-code
VAMIL
Branch
Type

Contents
Energy saving projects in utilities and buildings
Battery-free UPS system
This UPS system does not need batteries attached. As compared to other battery systems,
it can work with a wider temperature range.
320000/420000
none
ICT/datacenter
emergency power supply

Table III
A N E XAMPLE OF A C ODIFIED G REEN ACTION
Model elements
Green Goal
Green Action Name
Green Action
Description
Action Effect

Economic impact

Category
SubCategory

Contents
Energy saving projects in utilities and
buildings
Battery-free UPS system
This UPS system does not need batteries
attached. As compared to other battery
systems, it can work with a wider
temperature range.
1. No need to buy batteries.
2. No battery disposal and recycle is needed
and therefore it is environmentally friendly.
3. Since the system can work with a wider
temperature range, less cooling is needed.
4. Eligible for EIA 320000/420000.
1. Save operational costs for purchasing
batteries.
2. Save costs for disposal and recycling
batteries.
3. Save energy costs.
4. Save operational costs due to tax
reduction
Greening of IT
ICT/datacenter, emergency power supply

The second sentence says “As compared to other battery
systems, it can work with a wider temperature range.”
We interpreted that free-battery UPS systems can tolerate
higher temperature as compared to other battery systems,
and therefore less cooling is needed. Therefore, we codified
the third action effect as “less cooling is needed”. From this
effect we assume that less cooling means either less cooling

devices are needed or cooling devices may work less. In
both cases less energy would be consumed and therefore
we codified the economic impact as “Save energy costs.”
Finally, the last action effect we elicited comes from the
EIA-code. Because of the Energy Investment Allowance
program5 , some energy investment may eligible for tax
reduction. Therefore we codified the third action effect as
“Eligible for EIA 320000/420000” which obviously leads
to an economic impact “Savings costs due to tax reduction”.
As for the category, we consider this measure being a
”Green of IT” action, because it creates benefit by renewing
equipment in IT, but there is no direct benefit for other
sectors. Branch and Type in the MJA spreadsheet have been
directly codified as Sub-category.
In this way we were able to codify the green action using
the green strategy model, which is presented in Table III.
C. Findings
The goal of our case study has been to challenge our green
strategy model and find out its suitability in making explicit
and aligning the economic impact of each green action
and the corresponding environmental benefits. While none
of the 132 MJA green actions did explicitly describe this
alignment, during the codification we either had to elicit economic impact and environmental benefits embedded in the
action description and then make their alignment explicit, or
draw assumptions sometimes grounded in theory. Of course
the latter case will need to be validated by interviewing
domain experts who own the MJA green actions.
In general, we have been able to represent all relevant
fields in the original MJA spreadsheet with our model. This
gives us confidence on its suitability in codifying green
strategies. The next step, however, would be to go back
to the companies, or involve other ones, to check if our
way to align economic impact and environmental benefits is
effective and sufficient to decide on the best fitting strategy.
Further, the case study allowed us to collect the following
additional observations on the codification as well as a list
of issues that should lead to further improvements to our
strategy model.
•

Advantages of codification:
– The understandability of green actions is improved.
As we mentioned earlier, the green actions provided
to us were documented by domain experts who made
assumptions that readers having sufficient background knowledge to understand. However, when
shared with other data centers or presented to a third
party (e.g. our university for research purposes), the
documented green actions are often not completely
understandable and less usable. By codifying the

5 www.solarthermalworld.org/node/709

•

green actions, they are easier to be shared and communicated since assumptions and domain knowledge
embedded in the descriptions become explicit. For
instance, in our example discussed in Section III-B
the consequences of using a battery-free UPS system
are less clear to the reader before codification. Only
after codification it is clear that from environmental
perspective it would use less energy for cooling
(lower carbon footprint) and it avoids disposal and
recycling of batteries (less e-waste and less pollution
to the environment), and from economic perspective
it saves costs for energy consumption and saves costs
for disposal and recycling. Knowing these consequences is essential for companies to understand and
select the green action.
– Searching and selecting green actions for specific
purposes becomes easier.
Very often, a company would search for green actions to achieve certain environmental goals, which
is also the purpose of sharing green actions among
multiple data centers under MJA agreement. When
action effects and economical impacts are explicit,
they can be used as criteria for companies to search
for green actions that fulfill their business requirement. Further, explicit action effects and economical
impacts may aid companies to justify and reason
about the selection of certain green actions.
– The completeness of the documentation of green
actions is improved.
The model encourages the author of a green action to
document and, most importantly, to think about the
environmental effects and economic impact that the
green action may bring. In the future, when the green
strategy model is commonly used for documenting
green actions, the authors are guided with what type
of critical information to provided. As a result, the
chance that the documentation of green actions is
complete is much higher.
Issues for further improvement:
– Dependences between green actions should be
modeled.
When codifying the green actions, we observed that
some green actions are dependent or related to each
other. For instance, one green action is to use adiabatic cooling, meaning that “as a complement to the
direct free cooling we can evaporate water into the
airflow to remove the heat in the air”. Another green
action is described as “Moistening and drying air are
expensive and energy intensive. Use equipment that
operates between 20% and 80% of relative humidity.”
The former action results in high humidity of the air;
and the latter action proposes to use devices that may
tolerate wider ranges of humidity so that no extra

efforts are needed to moisten or dry air. Obviously,
the latter action provides a solution for the problem
that the former action introduces. If such relation is
explicitly modeled, it is easier to justify the economic
impact of both green actions as a whole.
– Differentiation between positive and negative impacts should be supported.
In the case study, we observed that each green action
can have multiple economic impacts, which may be
positive (i.e. contributing to reduce costs and increase
benefits) and/or negative (i.e. require investments
to put the actions in place). Currently, both of the
two types of economic impacts are codified by one
element (i.e. economic impact) without the discrimination of positive and negative effect. To assess the
ROI of a strategy and align it to the organization
business objectives is of course necessary to gain
clear understanding of both positive and negative
economic impacts. Therefore, in our opinion the discrimination of positive and negative impacts should
be supported by the model.
– References to the application of green actions
should be included.
We noticed in the MJA spreadsheet that sometimes
reference documentation, a case of study or examples
are given to show the application or usage of a green
action. In our opinion, the information about the
practice of a green action is very relevant to give
the reader an instrument to get better understanding
on a green action, and therefore, should be supported
by the model.
IV. C ONCLUSIONS
To reduce energy costs and contribute to global environmental goals, organizations consider green strategies
increasingly often. Sometimes they even add them as part
of their organizational strategies. However, experience shows
that if green strategies are not in line with business- and organization strategies they are easily neglected, or withdrawn
in times of crisis.
To aid organizations in the selection of green strategies
and aligning them to their business strategies, in this paper
we propose a green strategy model that codifies green
strategies in such a way that the link between green goals,
action effects, and economic impacts becomes explicit.
In the discussed MJA case study we observed that codifying green actions do help in identifying economic impact and
environmental effects, improve understandability, searchability, and encourage the authors to provide information that is
critical for decision making. In addition to these advantages,
we also observed that cross-dependencies between actions,
and the differentiation between positive- and negative economic impact would be relevant but are not supported yet
by our model.

The ultimate goal of our research is to establish a green
software knowledge base, which shares green metrics, policies, and best practices. This knowledge base will enable
researchers and practitioners to exchange knowledge about
green software accumulated from academia and industry.
The work reported in this paper serves as foundation for
the design and creation of such a knowledge base. We are
currently working on eliciting metrics from case studies,
and extend our model to relate action effects and economic
impacts with metrics and key ecologic indicators that quantify/qualify the benefits of green actions, and ultimately the
effectiveness of green strategies.

[6] M. Talebi and T. Way, “Methods, metrics and motivation
for a green computer science program,” SIGCSE Bull.,
vol. 41, pp. 362–366, March 2009. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1539024.1508995
[7] S.
Murugesan,
“Harnessing
green
IT:
Principles and practices,” IT Professional, vol. 10,
pp.
24–33,
January
2008.
[Online].
Available:
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1344234.1344284
[8] S. E. Hanselman and M. Pegah, “The wild wild waste:
e-waste,” in Proceedings of the 35th annual ACM SIGUCCS
fall conference, ser. SIGUCCS ’07. New York, NY,
USA: ACM, 2007, pp. 157–162. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1294046.1294083

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Thanks go to Achraf Belmokadem for participating in the
case study, and especially for the translation of the spreadsheet of green actions from Dutch to English. We would also
like to thank Frank Hartkamp (program advisor Agentschap
NL) for providing us access to the MJA spreadsheet. This
study is carried out in the context of the Dutch Knowledge
Network Green Software (http://kngs.wikidot.com).
R EFERENCES
[1] R. Harmon, H. Demirkan, N. Auseklis, and M. Reinoso,
“From green computing to sustainable IT: Developing
a sustainable service orientation,” in Proceedings of
the 43rd Hawaii International Conference on System
Sciences, ser. HICSS ’10. Washington, DC, USA: IEEE
Computer Society, 2010, pp. 1–10. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/HICSS.2010.214
[2] E. Davidson, E. Vaast, and P. Wang, “The greening of
IT: How discourse informs IT sustainability innovation,” in
Conference on Commerce and Enterprise Computing (CEC).
IEEE, 2011, pp. 421–427.
[3] J. Harris, Green Computing and Green IT Best Practices
on Regulations and Industry Initiatives, Virtualization, Power
Management, Materials Recycling and Telecommuting. London, UK, UK: Emereo Pty Ltd, 2008.
[4] P. Kurp, “Green computing,” Commun. ACM, vol. 51,
pp.
11–13,
October
2008.
[Online].
Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1400181.1400186
[5] M. Kazandjieva, B. Heller, O. Gnawali, W. Hofer, and P. L. C.
Kozyrakis, “Software or hardware: The future of green enterprise computing,” Stanford, Tech. Rep., 2011.

[9] R. L. Mitchell, “Get up to speed on green IT,” Computerworld, Tech. Rep., 2008.
[10] D. Daoud, “Beyond power: ITs roadmap to sustainable computing,” IDC Whitepaper, October 2008, daoud2008.
[11] P. Lago and T. Jansen, “Creating environmental awareness
in service oriented software engineering,” in ICSOC 2010
Workshop on Services, Energy and Ecosystems, ser. LNCS,
E. Maximilien, Ed., vol. 6568. Springer-Verlag, dec 2011,
pp. 181–186.
[12] E. Morrison, A. Ghose, H. Dam, K. Hinge, and K. HoeschKlohe, “Strategic alignment of business processes,” in the
proceeding of the 7th international workshop on engineering
service-oriented applications, 2011.
[13] NL
Agency,
Ministry
of
Economic
Affairs,
Agricoltures
and
Innovation,
“Eia.”
[Online]. Available: http://www.agentschapnl.nl/nl/programmasregelingen/meerjarenafspraken-energie-efficiency
[14] Y.-G. Cheong, Y.-J. Kim, S. Y. Yoo, H. Lee, S. Lee, S. C.
Chae, and H.-J. Choi, “An ontology-based reasoning approach
towards energy-aware smart homes,” in Consumer Communications and Networking Conference (CCNC). IEEE, Jan.
2011, pp. 850–854.
[15] J. K. Park, J. Y. Cho, Y. H. Shim, S. J. Kim, and B. G.
Lee, “A proposed framework for improving IT utilization in
the energy industry,” World Academy of Science, Engineering
and Technology, vol. 58, 2009.

